RELEASE NOTES v0.3.0 (#1008)
IBM/project-ai-services: CHANGELOG/v0.3.0.md

# Release Notes — v0.3.0

> **IBM AI Services** · [Documentation](https://www.ibm.com/docs/en/aiservices/2026.06.0) · [Migration Guide](https://www.ibm.com/docs/en/aiservices/2026.06.0?topic=services-migration-guide-v020-v030)

---

## What's New

### 🗂️ AI Services UI

> You can now deploy, manage, and monitor all your AI capabilities from a single web interface. Two dedicated sections cover the full stack:

Reviewer: talking about "two dedicated sections" but there are 5 points below 😄

---

### 💬 Smarter Conversational RAG

The chatbot now maintains conversation context across turns, so users can ask follow-up questions naturally without repeating themselves.

- **Context-aware answers** — pronouns and references from earlier in the conversation are resolved automatically
- **Multilingual** — conversations in **English, German, Italian, and French** are supported out of the box
- **Custom system prompts** — operators can tailor the assistant's persona and behaviour per deployment
- Prompt inputs are validated semantically before being sent to the model, reducing hallucination from malformed prompts

---

### 🔍 Similarity Search API

A new standalone service lets you run semantic search against your document corpus directly, independent of the chatbot.

- **Three search modes** — dense (k-NN), sparse (BM25), and hybrid
- **Optional reranking** — integrate Cohere reranker for higher-precision results
- **Simple API** — single endpoint: `POST /v1/similarity-search`
- Response headers include per-request timing so you can measure latency end-to-end

---

### 🔒 HTTPS Everywhere

> All service communications are now encrypted by default.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All external communications are now encrypted by default.
```
Internal is still http.
Also this section is true only for podman.

# Release v0.3.0

## Highlights

### 🚀 Major Features

**Catalog Architecture**
- Application lifecycle management system with REST APIs, web UI, and CLI
- Web UI: Deploy and monitor AI service application and monitor service status
- Secure access control with JWT token-based authentication (login, token refresh, logout)

> - PostgreSQL backend for application metadata and user credential storage

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- PostgreSQL backend for application metadata and user details
```

**Repository Code Reorganization**
- Restructured codebase into services/, ui/, and images/ directories for better modularity
- Clear separation between backend microservices, frontend applications, and container images
- Renamed rag-base to service-base for consistency
- Migration: spyre-rag/src/ → services/, digitize-ui/ → ui/digitize/, catalog-ui/ → ui/catalog/

**Conversational RAG**
- Automatic context management
- Pronoun resolution and context injection
- Multi-language support (English, German, Italian, French)
- Custom System Prompt support along with semantic and injection validation

**Similarity Search Service**
- New standalone similarity search API with configurable modes
- Dense (k-NN), sparse (BM25), and hybrid search support
- Optional reranking with Cohere
- REST API endpoint: POST /v1/similarity-search
- Performance timing information in response headers

**HTTPS/TLS Support**
- Automatic HTTPS enablement with Caddy reverse proxy integration
- Self-signed certificate generation for development
- Custom certificate support for production
- Dynamic route registration via Caddy Admin API
- HTTP/2 and HTTP/3 support

**PostgreSQL Database Integration**

> - Migration from JSON file storage to PostgreSQL for digitize and summarize services

Reviewer 2: can we repharse `JSON file` to `JSON metadata files`

- ACID guarantees and concurrent write performance
- Efficient querying with built-in indexing
- Database schema with documents and jobs tables

> - Backup/restore capabilities

Reviewer: This feature is available for OpenSearch as well. Not sure if we should mention here or move this feature altogether to a new section for migration support.

Reviewer 2: I believe we can keep it here and add dedicated section for migration support as well?

**Enhanced Summarization Service**
- Asynchronous job-based summarization with status tracking
- Direct and chunked summarization strategies
- Streaming API support
- CRUD endpoints for job management (GET /v1/jobs, GET /v1/jobs/{job_id})
- DOCX file support for digitize service
- New API parameter 'level' is supported to control the summarisation length

### 🔧 Key Improvements

**Performance & Reliability**
- Asynchronous processing for document ingestion and summarization
- Database connection pooling for efficient resource management
- Streaming APIs for summarization responses
- Orphan job recovery mechanism for summarize service
- Retry mechanism for similarity service OpenSearch connections
- Performance timing headers for similarity API

**Service Enhancements**
- Enhanced error handling with proper HTTP status codes
- Improved logging with request IDs and structured JSON logging
- Health endpoints with liveness and readiness probes

> - Import/Export APIs for metadata backup and restore (digitize, summarize services)

Reviewer 2: currently import/export API endpoints are added only in digitize service

### 🐛 Notable Fixes
- Table merging logic for PDF files
- Digitize UI duration and timestamps display
- Empty metadata in GET document requests
- Container readiness failures in ingest-docs CLI pod
- Dependabot alerts for already fixed CVE items

### 🔒 Security Updates

**CVE Fixes**
- Docling bumped to v2.95.0 for CVE fixes
- python-multipart bumped to 0.0.27
- starlette bumped to 1.0.1
- cryptography bumped to 46.0.6
- Go version bumped to fix CVE-2026-32280 and CVE-2026-25679
- LiteLLM bumped to v1.86.5 for CVE fixes
- Python packages bumped to fix multiple CVEs
- npm packages bumped across directories (dompurify, PostCSS, Axios, esbuild)
- Whitelisted Docker/Moby and specific CVEs in Trivy scans

**Security Enhancements**
- vLLM authentication with API keys
- Non-root user configuration for all services
- Automatic secrets generation and management
- HTTPS/TLS encryption for all service communications

### ⚠️ Breaking Changes

**Code Organization**
- Python import paths updated for new directory structure (spyre-rag/src/ → services/)
- Image name changed from rag-base to service-base
- File paths for services moved to new locations

**Deployment Architecture**

> - New catalog-based deployment model available for runtime podman (legacy mode still supported with --legacy flag)

Reviewer: Let's not mention the legacy flag at all. We are planning to remove this in the next release.

- PostgreSQL required for digitize and summarize services (JSON storage deprecated)
- New environment variables and CLI flags for catalog configuration

> - Caddy proxy integration for HTTPS (optional but recommended)

Reviewer: Caddy is used by default. Not optional.

**Conversational RAG**
- Automatic context management
- Pronoun resolution and context injection
- Multi-language support (English, German, Italian, French)
- Custom System Prompt support along with semantic and injection validation

**Similarity Search Service**
- New standalone similarity search API with configurable modes
- Dense (k-NN), sparse (BM25), and hybrid search support
- Optional reranking with Cohere
- REST API endpoint: POST /v1/similarity-search
- Performance timing information in response headers

**HTTPS/TLS Support**
- Automatic HTTPS enablement with Caddy reverse proxy integration
- Self-signed certificate generation for development
- Custom certificate support for production
- Dynamic route registration via Caddy Admin API
- HTTP/2 and HTTP/3 support

**PostgreSQL Database Integration**
- Migration from JSON metadata file storage to PostgreSQL for digitize and summarize services  
- ACID guarantees and improved concurrent write performance  
- Efficient querying with built-in indexing  
- Database schema with `documents` and `jobs` tables  

**Migration & Data Management**

> - Backup and restore capabilities across supported storage systems (PostgreSQL and OpenSearch)  

Reviewer 3: Better to call out the service 
Only digitize and opensearch data can be backed up and restored.
Not summarize.

Reviewer 3: Again, its not saying not supported for summarize :(

- Tools to support safe data migration and recovery  

**Enhanced Summarization Service**
- Asynchronous job-based summarization with status tracking
- Direct and chunked summarization strategies

> - Streaming API support

Reviewer 3: this was added in last release

- CRUD endpoints for job management (GET /v1/jobs, GET /v1/jobs/{job_id})

> - DOCX file support for digitize service

Reviewer 3: this should not come under summarization
this is added for digitization service

**Service Enhancements**
- Enhanced error handling with proper HTTP status codes
- Improved logging with request IDs and structured JSON logging
- Health endpoints with liveness and readiness probes
- Import/Export APIs for metadata backup and restore (digitize service only)
- Network-based data transfer without file system access
- Batch processing support for import operations

**Security & Compliance**
- vLLM API key-based authentication (optional, disabled by default)
- Non-root user support for all services with arbitrary UID compatibility
- Automatic password generation for OpenSearch and PostgreSQL
- Kubernetes/OpenShift Secret integration for sensitive data (passwords, API keys)
- SELinux policy integration for Podman (VFIO device access and non-root socket access)

**Developer Experience**
- Comprehensive unit test coverage for all services (chatbot, digitize, summarize, similarity, common)
- CI/CD enhancements with automated testing and version bumping
- Extensive proposal documents for major features
- Updated Swagger API documentation
- AI Services Podman development guide
- Improved CLI help messages and error feedback

**Multi-Language Support**

> - Multi-language support: German (chatbot conversational RAG, digitize table summarization), Italian and French (chatbot)

Reviewer 4: conversational RAG, digitize table summarization is supported on all 3, not specific to German

- Language-specific prompt templates
- Automatic language detection with Lingua library
- Configurable role labels and stop sequences per language

**New Container Images**
- PostgreSQL 16 UBI-based image with non-root support
- LiteLLM proxy image for multi-provider LLM integration with WatsonX support
- Caddy reverse proxy image for HTTPS termination
- Updated service-base image with Docling v2.95.0

### 🐛 Notable Fixes
- Table merging logic for PDF files
- Digitize UI duration and timestamps display

> - Empty metadata in GET document requests

Reviewer 3: Please remove this

> - Container readiness failures in ingest-docs CLI pod

Reviewer 3: We have removed the old cli 
This line can be removed and add a new entry for removal of old ingest-docs and clean-docs cli

- Dependabot alerts for already fixed CVE items

### 🔒 Security Updates

**CVE Fixes**
- Docling bumped to v2.95.0 for CVE fixes
- python-multipart bumped to 0.0.27
- starlette bumped to 1.0.1
- cryptography bumped to 46.0.6
- Go version bumped to fix CVE-2026-32280 and CVE-2026-25679
- LiteLLM bumped to v1.86.5 for CVE fixes
- Python packages bumped to fix multiple CVEs
- npm packages bumped across directories (dompurify, PostCSS, Axios, esbuild)
- Whitelisted Docker/Moby and specific CVEs in Trivy scans

**Security Enhancements**
- vLLM authentication with API keys
- Non-root user configuration for all services
- Automatic secrets generation and management
- HTTPS/TLS encryption for all service communications

### ⚠️ Breaking Changes

**Code Organization**
- Python import paths updated for new directory structure (spyre-rag/src/ → services/)
- Image name changed from rag-base to service-base

> - File paths for services moved to new locations

Reviewer 3: these are abstract to the user, no need to mention in breaking changes

- Concurrent document ingestion is safe — no more write contention
- Documents and jobs are queryable with full indexing
- ACID guarantees mean no partial state on failure

**Backup & Restore**
- Backup and restore capabilities across supported storage systems (PostgreSQL and OpenSearch)  
- Tools to support safe data migration and recovery  

---

## Improvements

### LLM Provider Support
- **PowerVS / WatsonX via LiteLLM** — the LiteLLM proxy now supports IBM PowerVS-hosted WatsonX models

### Security
- All services run as **non-root users** with arbitrary UID support (OpenShift-compatible)
- Passwords for OpenSearch and PostgreSQL are auto-generated on first deployment
- Secrets are stored as Kubernetes/OpenShift Secrets — never in plain config files
- vLLM API key authentication (optional, off by default)

---

## Security Updates

The following dependency versions were bumped to resolve CVEs:

| Package | Reason |
|---|---|
| Docling → v2.95.0 | CVE fixes |
| python-multipart → 0.0.27 | CVE fix |
| starlette → 1.0.1 | CVE fix |
| cryptography → 46.0.6 | CVE fix |

> | LiteLLM → v1.86.5 | CVE fixes |

Reviewer 5: Litellm version is updated to v1.89.3 now

Reviewer 6: can we just remove this section itself? is this really needed? 🤔

- **Simple API** — single endpoint: `POST /v1/similarity-search`
- Response headers include per-request timing so you can measure latency end-to-end

---

### 🔒 HTTPS Everywhere

All service communications are now encrypted by default.

- Services are fronted by a **Caddy reverse proxy** that handles TLS termination automatically
- Self-signed certificates are generated automatically for local/dev deployments
- Bring your own certificate for production environments
- HTTP/2 and HTTP/3 are supported

---

### 📄 Document Processing Improvements

The digitize and summarize services have been significantly upgraded.

**Digitization**
- DOCX files are now supported alongside PDF and plain text
- Table spans across multiple pages are now merged correctly
- Added support for multilingual table summarization to improve accuracy of table data in documents

**Summarization**
- Jobs now run **asynchronously** — submit a document and poll for results, no blocking calls
- Two strategies: *direct* (single-pass) and *chunked* (for long documents)
- Control summary length with the new `level` parameter (`brief`, `standard`, `detailed`)

> **Document jobs API**

Reviewer 3: this is under summarization, but ideally not required, 1st point under summarization covers this
can be removed

- `GET /v1/jobs` — list all jobs with status
- `GET /v1/jobs/{job_id}` — get a specific job's result or progress

---

### 💾 PostgreSQL Storage

The digitize and summarize services now use **PostgreSQL** as their primary storage backend, replacing the previous JSON file store.

- Concurrent document ingestion is safe — no more write contention
- Documents and jobs are queryable with full indexing
- ACID guarantees mean no partial state on failure

> **Backup & Restore** — new import/export APIs let you snapshot and restore document metadata without file-system access, transferring data over the network.

Reviewer 3: As I mentioned already, this is applicable only for digitization and opensearch, update the point clearly

---

## Improvements

### Security
- All services run as **non-root users** with arbitrary UID support (OpenShift-compatible)
- Passwords for OpenSearch and PostgreSQL are auto-generated on first deployment
- Secrets are stored as Kubernetes/OpenShift Secrets — never in plain config files
- vLLM API key authentication (optional, off by default)

### Observability
- Structured JSON logging across all services with per-request IDs for traceability
- Health endpoints expose liveness and readiness probes for orchestrators

> - Timing headers on similarity search responses for SLA monitoring

Reviewer 3: 1st two points are already added in last release.
last point already covered under similarity search section above
hence we can remove this

---

### 🔍 Similarity Search API

A new standalone service lets you run semantic search against your document corpus directly, independent of the chatbot.

- **Three search modes** — dense (k-NN), sparse (BM25), and hybrid
- **Optional reranking** — integrate Cohere reranker for higher-precision results
- **Simple API** — single endpoint: `POST /v1/similarity-search`
- Response headers include per-request timing so you can measure latency end-to-end

---

### 🔒 HTTPS Everywhere

All service communications are now encrypted by default.

- Services are fronted by a **Caddy reverse proxy** that handles TLS termination automatically
- Self-signed certificates are generated automatically for local/dev deployments
- Bring your own certificate for production environments
- HTTP/2 and HTTP/3 are supported

---

### 📄 Document Processing Improvements

The digitize and summarize services have been significantly upgraded.

**Summarization**
- Jobs now run **asynchronously** — submit a document and poll for results, no blocking calls
- Two strategies: *direct* (single-pass) and *chunked* (for long documents)

> - Streaming API so results start flowing to the client as soon as they are ready

Reviewer 3: This can be removed, since it was added in last release itself.

> - Control summary length with the new `level` parameter (`short`, `medium`, `full`)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Control summary length with the new `level` parameter (`brief`, `standard`, `detailed`)
```

> - DOCX files are now supported alongside PDF and plain text

Reviewer 3: This should be under `Digitization` service
Some other improvements under Digitization service are
- Merging table spawns across multiple pages
- Added support for multilingual table summarization to improve accuracy of the table data present in documents.

**Document jobs API**
- `GET /v1/jobs` — list all jobs with status
- `GET /v1/jobs/{job_id}` — get a specific job's result or progress

---

### 💾 PostgreSQL Storage

The digitize and summarize services now use **PostgreSQL** as their primary storage backend, replacing the previous JSON file store.

- Concurrent document ingestion is safe — no more write contention
- Documents and jobs are queryable with full indexing
- ACID guarantees mean no partial state on failure

**Backup & Restore** — new import/export APIs let you snapshot and restore document metadata without file-system access, transferring data over the network.

---

## Improvements

### Performance
- Asynchronous processing for both document ingestion and summarization pipelines
- Database connection pooling keeps resource usage predictable under load
- Automatic recovery of orphaned summarization jobs after a service restart

> - OpenSearch connections in the similarity service now retry on transient failures

Reviewer 3: This block can be removed.

### Security
- All services run as **non-root users** with arbitrary UID support (OpenShift-compatible)
- Passwords for OpenSearch and PostgreSQL are auto-generated on first deployment
- Secrets are stored as Kubernetes/OpenShift Secrets — never in plain config files
- vLLM API key authentication (optional, off by default)

### Observability
- Structured JSON logging across all services with per-request IDs for traceability
- Health endpoints expose liveness and readiness probes for orchestrators
- Timing headers on similarity search responses for SLA monitoring

---

## Bug Fixes

> - Fixed table merging logic for multi-page PDF documents

Reviewer 3: This is added as a feature in this release, not a bug fix

> - Fixed duration and timestamp display in the Digitize UI

Reviewer 3: This can be removed

- Fixed empty metadata returned on `GET /document` requests
- Fixed container readiness failures in the `ingest-docs` CLI pod

> 

Reviewer 3: Not making sense, can be removed 
As I already mentioned, both ingest-docs & clean-docs cli are removed now.

# Release v0.3.0

## Highlights

### 🚀 Major Features

**Catalog Architecture**
- Complete application lifecycle management system with REST APIs, web UI, and CLI integration
- Deploy, monitor, and manage AI service applications through unified interface
- JWT-based authentication and authorization

> - Pod/container health status tracking and monitoring

Reviewer 7: This is not present in UI, its only a CLI feature! (in UI only deployments along with services status are shown not pods/container )

Author: changed the language

- PostgreSQL backend for application metadata storage

**Repository Code Reorganization**
- Restructured codebase into services/, ui/, and images/ directories for better modularity
- Clear separation between backend microservices, frontend applications, and container images
- Renamed rag-base to service-base for consistency

> - Migration: spyre-rag/src/ → services/, digitize-ui/ → ui/digitize/, catalog-ui/ → ui/catalog/

Reviewer 8: Added unit tests for services code.
Edit: I see that it is mentioned later.

**Conversational RAG**
- Multi-turn conversation support with automatic query rephrasing
- Client-side session management with stateless backend

> - Conversation history truncation (last 10 messages)

Reviewer 4: These specifics are not needed, mention "Automatic context management"

- Pronoun resolution and context injection
- Multi-language support (English, German, Italian, French)

> 

Reviewer 4: Add mention for "Custom System Prompt support along with semantic and injection validation"

**Similarity Search Service**
- New standalone similarity search API with configurable modes
- Dense (k-NN), sparse (BM25), and hybrid search support
- Optional reranking with Cohere
- REST API endpoint: POST /v1/similarity-search
- Performance timing information in response headers

**HTTPS/TLS Support**
- Automatic HTTPS enablement with Caddy reverse proxy integration
- Self-signed certificate generation for development
- Custom certificate support for production
- Dynamic route registration via Caddy Admin API
- HTTP/2 and HTTP/3 support

**PostgreSQL Database Integration**
- Migration from JSON file storage to PostgreSQL for digitize and summarize services
- ACID guarantees and concurrent write performance
- Efficient querying with built-in indexing
- Database schema with documents and jobs tables
- Backup/restore capabilities

**Enhanced Summarization Service**
- Asynchronous job-based summarization with status tracking
- Direct and chunked summarization strategies
- Streaming API support
- CRUD endpoints for job management (GET /v1/jobs, GET /v1/jobs/{job_id})

> - DOCX file support with configurable summarization levels

Reviewer 9: We are not supporting DOCX file in summarisation yet, only in the digitization service.

You can include the following point:
- New API parameter 'level' is supported to control the summarisation length.

Author: done

> 

Reviewer 9: We can include a new section here for 'Digitization service support for DOCX files'
cc. @dharaneeshvrd

Author: like a subheading? with more details added?

### 🔧 Key Improvements

**Performance & Reliability**
- Asynchronous processing for document ingestion and summarization
- Database connection pooling for efficient resource management
- Streaming APIs for summarization responses
- Orphan job recovery mechanism for summarize service
- Retry mechanism for similarity service OpenSearch connections
- Performance timing headers for similarity API

> **Backend Enhancements**

Reviewer 7: This backend seems to be mixed, I see Catalog-backend information mixed with use cases backend. Not sure if it confuses end users

Author: ```
**Service Enhancements**
- Enhanced error handling with proper HTTP status codes
- Improved logging with request IDs and structured JSON logging
- Health endpoints with liveness and readiness probes
- Import/Export APIs for metadata backup and restore (digitize, summarize services)
- Network-based data transfer without file system access
- Batch processing support for import operations
```

- Import/Export APIs for metadata backup and restore
- Network-based data transfer without file system access
- Batch processing support for import operations
- Enhanced error handling with proper HTTP status codes
- Improved logging with request IDs and structured JSON logging
- Health endpoints with liveness and readiness probes

> **Security & Compliance**

Reviewer 7: I do see one more section ** Security Improvements ** with some of the points being same do we need both?

Author: I have reframed the headers for this

- vLLM API key-based authentication (optional, disabled by default)
- Non-root user support for all services with arbitrary UID compatibility
- Automatic password generation for OpenSearch and PostgreSQL

> - Kubernetes Secret integration for sensitive data

Reviewer 7: Do you mean `podman secrets`? as in openshift we were already using secrets

Author: how does this look ?
```
- Kubernetes/OpenShift Secret integration for sensitive data (passwords, API keys)
- Registry authentication for private image pulls
- SELinux policy integration for Podman (VFIO device access and non-root socket access)
```

> - Registry authentication for private image pulls

Reviewer 7: Also here, I dont think we should be adding this `- Registry authentication for private image pulls`

- SELinux policy integration for Podman

**Developer Experience**

> - Comprehensive unit test coverage for all services (chatbot, digitize, summarize, common)

Reviewer 4: Mention similarity service as well

Author: done

- CI/CD enhancements with automated testing and version bumping
- Extensive proposal documents for major features
- Updated Swagger API documentation
- AI Services Podman development guide
- Improved CLI help messages and error feedback

**Multi-Language Support**
- German language support for chatbot conversational RAG and digitize table summarization

> - Italian and French language support for chatbot

Reviewer 4: Points 1 is applicable for all languages. 
Support for conversational RAG, digitize table summarization & custom system prompt is available on English, German, French and Italian

Author: clubbed the pointers

- Language-specific prompt templates

> - Automatic language detection with Lingua library

Reviewer 4: Already existed, not part of v0.3.0 release

Author: what exactly are you referring to here?

Reviewer 4: The implementation for automatic language detection already existed in the past release

Reviewer 3: > Automatic language detection with Lingua library

This is added as part of last release itself, can be removed.

> - Configurable role labels and stop sequences per language

Reviewer 4: Needs to be removed

Reviewer 3: Remove this

**New Container Images**
- PostgreSQL 16 UBI-based image with non-root support
- LiteLLM proxy image for multi-provider LLM integration with WatsonX support
- Caddy reverse proxy image for HTTPS termination
- Updated service-base image with Docling v2.95.0

### 🐛 Notable Fixes
- Table merging logic for DOCX files

> - Digitize UI duration and timestamps display

Reviewer 4: Bug introduced and fixed within same release, so needs to be removed

Reviewer 3: remove this

- OpenSearch template parameter loading issues
- PostgreSQL permission issues on Podman
- YAML template indentation in RAG templates
- Catalog service port mismatch
- Empty metadata in GET document requests

> - Log streaming context preservation

Reviewer 4: Is this in context of conversational RAG?
If yes, needs to be removed, part of new feature

Author: yup - I see it now

- Container readiness failures in ingest-docs CLI pod

> - Truncated responses issue in chatbot

Reviewer 4: Needs to be removed, part of new feature

Author: all of these??

Reviewer 4: Just 
> Truncated responses issue in chatbot

- Bulk restore for OpenSearch
- Dependabot alerts for already fixed CVE items

### 🔒 Security Updates

**CVE Fixes**
- Docling bumped to v2.95.0 for CVE fixes
- python-multipart bumped to 0.0.27
- starlette bumped to 1.0.1
- cryptography bumped to 46.0.6
- Go version bumped to fix CVE-2026-32280 and CVE-2026-25679
- LiteLLM bumped to v1.86.5 for CVE fixes
- Python packages bumped to fix multiple CVEs
- npm packages bumped across directories (dompurify, PostCSS, Axios, esbuild)
- Whitelisted Docker/Moby and specific CVEs in Trivy scans

**Security Enhancements**
- vLLM authentication with API keys
- Non-root user configuration for all services
- Automatic secrets generation and management
- HTTPS/TLS encryption for all service communications

> - Registry authentication for private registries

Reviewer 7: I think we should not mention this `Registry authentication for private registries` if you're referring to `podman-auth` for catalog service to pull images

Author: sure

### ⚠️ Breaking Changes

**Code Organization**
- Python import paths updated for new directory structure (spyre-rag/src/ → services/)
- Image name changed from rag-base to service-base
- File paths for services moved to new locations

**Deployment Architecture**

> - New catalog-based deployment model available (legacy mode still supported with --legacy flag)

Reviewer 7: Maybe better to mention not recommended? As we dont want end-user to continue using this

Author: legacy implies that it is old

- PostgreSQL required for digitize and summarize services (JSON storage deprecated)
- New environment variables and CLI flags for catalog configuration
- Caddy proxy integration for HTTPS (optional but recommended)

**Migration Required**
- Update import statements in custom code for new directory structure
- Migrate JSON metadata to PostgreSQL using import API
- Update deployment scripts for new catalog architecture
- Configure HTTPS with Caddy for production deployments

### 📝 Upgrade Notes

**Prerequisites**
- PostgreSQL 16+ (for digitize and summarize services)
- Caddy 2.x (for HTTPS support, optional)
- Updated CLI binary to latest version

**Migration Steps**
1. Backup existing JSON metadata files

> 2. Update CLI binary to v0.3.0

Reviewer 7: Before update, the existing application needs to be deleted

Author: I will move this section away - we have the migration guide in IBM Docs

3. Configure catalog (optional): `ai-services catalog configure`
4. Deploy with new architecture: `ai-services application create`
5. Import existing metadata using `/v1/import` API endpoint

**Compatibility**
- Existing v0.2.0 deployments continue to work
- JSON file storage still supported (deprecated, use PostgreSQL)
- Old CLI commands remain functional
- New catalog features require updated CLI and catalog backend

> - Legacy deployment mode available with --legacy flag

Reviewer 4: Combine both lines in one statement

> Old CLI commands remain functional
> Legacy deployment mode available with --legacy flag

Author: removed the section
